Hi everyone!
Today we will start learning Python for loops.
A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence.
It can be a tuple dictionary, a set, or a string.
With the for loop, we can execute a set of statements once for each item in a list, tuple, set and
others.
This is an example.
We have a list and we use the for loop to iterate this list.
Here, just note the for loop does not require an indexing variable to set beforehand, and this is
not the case for the while loop.
Just remember that we need to increment in indexing, else the loop will continue forever for the for
the while loops.
And this is the main difference between while loops and for loops.
Let's continue with a.
For loops, we can loop through a string like in this example.
The brick statement used to exit from the loop here.
For example, when x equal banana, we will exit the for loop.
This is a second example.
With the continue statement, we can stop the current iteration of the loop and continue with the next.
Here, for example, when x equal banana, we will not print the element banana and we will continue
to the next iteration.
Before doing the section five, let's do some examples in PyCharm.
Here this is the first example.
We use the for loop to iterate the list.
This is the three element of the list.
We can use the for loop to iterate a string.
The break statement used to exit from the for loop.
In this case, we just print the first two elements.
Why?
Because when x equal banana, we will exit from the for loop and we will not print the third element.
This is a second example.
The difference between this example and this.
The second example is that the print it will be after the condition.
In this case we will print only the first element y because when x equal banana, we will not print
like the first example and we will exit from the for loop.
We will print only one element apple.
The continue statement used to stop the current Iteration and we will pass to the next iteration.
Here in this example, we will not print banana.
We will just print the first and the third element.
Just the first and the third element.
Let's continue to the section five the range function.
To loop through a set of code a specified number of times, we can use the range function.
The range function returns a sequence of numbers starting from zero by default, and increments by one
by default, and ends at a specified number.
Here, for example, for x in range six, we will start by default by zero, and we will increment by
one.
The range six is not the value of 0 to 6, but the value 0 to 5.
Here this number, it will not.
It will not included in the list.
The range function defaults to increment the sequence by one.
However, it is possible to specify the increment value by adding a third parameter like here in this
example.
In this example, we.
We add a start index start and also the value of the increment.
Here we will start from two and we will add every time the value three until 29.
Let's execute this example to understand more the function range here.
In this example range will start from 0 to 5.
And by default we add one every time.
From 0 to 5.
And the default step is one.
The second example we will start from two.
The last element always is not included from 2 to 5.
Where we will update the step from 1 to 3.
And we will continue from 2 to 29.
And we will add three every time in every iteration.
We will start from two.
2 to 5 we add three.
5 to 8 we add three until 29.
And that's it for this video.